# Consumer Analysis
# Overview
In this model, we will predict and analyze consumer spending scores based on a set of consumer demographics. The data used contains demographics such as annual income, age, profession, gender, work experience, family size and spending score. The spending score is a value assigned by the organization for each customer an indicator of spending probablity. Consumers with the highest spending score would be the ideal consumer for this organization. We will identify which factors could be used to predict a high spending score, or in other words, an ideal customer.

In the data cleaning process, we found outliers in the age and work experience data. We filtered the data to only view the age range of 25 - 65, and work experience years that are greater than zero. To compare the consumer spending score with average annual income, we began with unsupervised learning, and created 4 clusters of data based on the results of the elbow curve (Consumer_Spending_Model.ipynb). There are 4 clear clusters generated, but there was no strong indication of a relationship between spending score and average annual income. To further analyze, we generated two more models that introduced a third dimension for comparison. By adding age as a Z axis and creating 5 clusters, there is more segration of the clusters in annual income and spending score indicating that age is a stronger determining factor of spending score (Age_graph.ipynb). We also created an additional model that added a third dimension of family size, also comparing this demogrpahic to average annual income and spending score (FamilySize_graph.ipynb). This identified that the individuals with larger family sizes generally have higher spending scores.

# Visualizations
In the Tableau story, the first page contains visualizations of the data related to average spending score. We are able to see that an individual with a family size of 4, has the highest average spending score and that the spending score declines significantly for large families that are a size of 8. In the age category, the spending score fluctuates all over the board with the highest spending score belonging to the 51 year old age group. In work experience, there is minimal variation in the spending score as the years of experience change with the exception of a major decline in spending score as the work experience surpasses 15 years of experience. There are clear leaders in the profession category as engineers are artists are the top 2 groups for spending score.

The second page of the Tableau story visulaizes the clustering of the consumer segments. We see that the visualizations are generally flat for the most part. This supports our findings from the consumer spending model, that a 2 dimensional analysis would not suffice to properly model these demographics related to average spending score.

(Data source: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/datascientistanna/customers-dataset/code?select=Customers.csv)
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VRhXu2l8y4c-UO-Z5cN2D-Y2SsUhzAvXH-6RYhgWPY8/edit?usp=sharing
